new: product recommendations overview (#2651)
vtexdocs/dev-portal-content: docs/guides/Recommendations/product-recommendations.md

---
title: "Product recommendations"
slug: "product-recommendations"
hidden: false
excerpt: "VTEX Product Recommendations (beta): strategies, data prerequisites for model training, implementation paths by storefront, and frequently asked questions."
createdAt: "2026-05-12T12:00:00.000Z"
updatedAt: "2026-05-12T18:00:00.000Z"
seeAlso:
  - "/docs/guides/integrating-product-recommendations-in-headless-or-faststore-web-stores"
  - "/docs/guides/integrating-product-recommendations-in-mobile-stores"
  - "/docs/apps/vtex.recommendation-shelf"
hidePaginationPrevious: false
hidePaginationNext: false
---

> > ℹ️ Product Recommendations is in closed beta and available only to selected clients. If you are a VTEX client and want to adopt it, contact [Commercial Support](https://help.vtex.com/docs/tracks/commercial-support). Additional fees may apply. For a product-focused introduction, see the Help Center tutorial [Product Recommendations (beta)](https://help.vtex.com/en/docs/tutorials/product-recommendations-beta).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ℹ️ **Product Recommendations** is in closed beta and available only to selected clients. If you are a VTEX client and want to adopt it, contact [Commercial Support](https://help.vtex.com/docs/tracks/commercial-support). Additional fees may apply. For a product-focused introduction, see the Help Center tutorial [Product Recommendations (beta)](https://help.vtex.com/en/docs/tutorials/product-recommendations-beta).
```

> Product Recommendations let your store surface relevant products through multiple strategies (for example, similar items, cross-sell, or personalized shelves). They can improve discovery, conversion, and average order value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Product Recommendations** let your store surface relevant products through multiple strategies (for example, similar items, cross-sell, or personalized shelves). They can improve discovery, conversion, and average order value.
```

* FastStore, headless, and mobile must also call the [Start session](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/recommendations-bff-api#post-/api/recommend-bff/v2/users/start-session) endpoint to link browsing behavior to completed purchases.
* All channels should send the product view events expected by the recommendation service so models can learn from real traffic.

Some strategies need minimum purchase history and product views so joint purchase patterns can be learned. Until those thresholds are met, VTEX may not train that strategy to full quality. See [Recommendation strategies](#recommendation-strategies) and [FAQ](#faq).

## Recommendation strategies

The exact set of strategies enabled for your account is agreed during onboarding. Some strategies require enough sales or behavioral history before models perform well. Until then, rely on strategies that do not depend on those signals or tune shelves with your VTEX contact.

| Strategy | How it works | Data requirements | Typical placement |
| :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- |
| Best sellers | Highlights top-performing products by sales volume | None | Home, category, search |

> | Recommended for you | Personalizes picks based on individual browsing and purchase history. Falls back to top picks for new users or when the model is not ready yet (see [FAQ](#faq)) | At least 1,000 unique profiles who visited a product page more than once. At least 10,000 of one of the following: product.view events or transaction.charge events. | Home, category, search, PDP, cart, checkout, post-purchase |

Reviewer 2: > ...Falls back to top picks

But I couldn't find a strategy named 'top picks'.

> | Recommended for you | Personalizes picks based on individual browsing and purchase history. Falls back to top picks for new users or when the model is not ready yet (see [FAQ](#faq)) | At least 1,000 unique profiles who visited a product page more than once. At least 10,000 of one of the following: product.view events or transaction.charge events. | Home, category, search, PDP, cart, checkout, post-purchase |

Reviewer 2: The `Recommended for you` summary says the shelf "falls back to top picks" for new users or while the model is not ready, but the FAQ below describes different behaviors: cold-start recommendations based on other first-time visitors and an onboarding-defined temporary behavior before full personalization is enabled. Please simplify this row or mirror the exact fallback behavior from the source of truth so the overview and FAQ do not describe different shopper experiences.

| Similar products | Matches items by catalog attributes such as category, brand, and specifications | Complete and consistent catalog attributes | PDP |

> | Frequently bought together | Surfaces items commonly purchased alongside the reference product | At least 1,000 transactions with basket size > 1 | PDP, cart |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Frequently bought together | Surfaces items commonly purchased alongside the reference product | At least 1,000 transactions with more than one item in the cart | PDP, cart |
```

| FastStore / Headless | [Integrating product recommendations in headless or FastStore web stores](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/integrating-product-recommendations-in-headless-or-faststore-web-stores): session management, fetching recommendations, event tracking, and Activity Flow setup. |
| Mobile | [Integrating product recommendations in mobile stores](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/integrating-product-recommendations-in-mobile-stores): session management, fetching recommendations, and manual event tracking via API. |

FastStore, headless, and mobile implementations all use the [Recommendations BFF API](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/recommendations-bff-api). Store Framework uses the app and block model and does not call the BFF API directly.

## FAQ

### Can I implement only one strategy?

Yes. You request the strategies you want during activation. VTEX enables and trains what is agreed for your account.

### How long does it take before models are ready?

> It depends on the strategy. Strategies that do not rely on model training, such as Best sellers, Recently viewed, and Manual collection, are available as soon as the integration is configured. Strategies that require training become available once the minimum data thresholds are met: Recommended for you requires at least 1,000 unique profiles with repeat product page visits and at least 10,000 product view or purchase events, and Frequently bought together requires at least 1,000 transactions with more than one item in the cart. Beyond those thresholds, time to readiness also depends on catalog size and overall traffic volume. Your onboarding team can give more accurate timelines for your store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It depends on the strategy. Strategies that do not rely on model training, such as **Best sellers**, **Recently viewed**, and **Manual collection**, are available as soon as the integration is configured. Strategies that require training become available once the minimum data thresholds are met: 
- **Recommended for you:** requires at least 1,000 unique profiles with repeat product page visits and at least 10,000 product view or purchase events.
- **Frequently bought together:** requires at least 1,000 transactions with more than one item in the cart. 

Beyond those thresholds, time to readiness also depends on catalog size and overall traffic volume. Your onboarding team can give more accurate timelines for your store.
```

### What data is collected for training?

Typically includes navigation and product interaction events used to learn views, affinity, and personalization signals, plus order data when identifiers link a session to a completed purchase. Your integration guide lists the events you should send explicitly.

### What happens to co-purchase strategies when the store does not have enough order volume?

> Strategies that rely on co-purchase patterns, such as Frequently bought together, require a minimum of 10,000 orders with more than one item in the cart. Until that threshold is reached, the strategy remains inactive. Once the volume is met, VTEX trains the model and activates the strategy. Until then, consider relying on strategies that do not depend on co-purchase data, such as Most popular, Best sellers, or Similar products.

Reviewer 2: The readiness thresholds in this FAQ currently contradict the strategy table above. The table says `Recommended for you` needs profile and event volume, while `Frequently bought together` needs multi-item transactions, but this answer swaps those requirements and line 91 repeats a different threshold again. Please align the table and FAQ to the same source of truth so developers do not leave this page with the wrong rollout expectations.

> Strategies that rely on co-purchase patterns, such as Frequently bought together, require a minimum of 1,000 transactions with more than one item in the cart. Until that threshold is reached, the strategy remains inactive. Once the volume is met, VTEX trains the model and activates the strategy. Until then, consider relying on strategies that do not depend on co-purchase data, such as Best sellers or Similar products.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Strategies that rely on co-purchase patterns, such as **Frequently bought together**, require a minimum of 1,000 transactions with more than one item in the cart. Until that threshold is reached, the strategy remains inactive. Once the volume is met, VTEX trains the model and activates the strategy. Until then, consider relying on strategies that do not depend on co-purchase data, such as **Best sellers** or **Similar products**.
```

### What happens to "Recommended for you" when there is not enough data?

> Recommended for you depends on a personalization model trained from real shopper and purchase behavior. When a shopper has no item page visit events or completed transactions, recommendations are generated based on the first items clicked in the last 90 days by other first-time visitors in the store. As the shopper builds a history, recommendations gradually shift to reflect their individual behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Recommended for you** depends on a personalization model trained from real shopper and purchase behavior. When a shopper has no item page visit events or completed transactions, recommendations are generated based on the first items clicked in the last 90 days by other first-time visitors in the store. As the shopper builds a history, recommendations gradually shift to reflect their individual behavior.
```

> Until there is enough account-level history for VTEX to train and enable the model, the campaign does not behave as fully personalized. What shoppers see in the meantime is configured as part of onboarding (for example, emphasizing other strategies such as Most popular or Best sellers, hiding the shelf, or using a transitional setup). Confirm the exact behavior with your VTEX contact so your UI matches expectations.

Reviewer 2: The FAQ introduces `Most popular` as if it were a defined strategy, but that name does not appear in the strategy table or in the implementation-guide mapping on this page. Please normalize the strategy names across the overview and FAQ, or explicitly explain when a term is an alias, so developers can map each recommendation type to the correct shelf or campaign without guessing.

> Until there is enough account-level history for VTEX to train and enable the model, the campaign does not behave as fully personalized. What shoppers see in the meantime is configured as part of onboarding (for example, emphasizing other strategies such as Best sellers, hiding the shelf, or using a transitional setup). Confirm the exact behavior with your VTEX contact so your UI matches expectations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Until there is enough account-level history for VTEX to train and enable the model, the campaign does not behave as fully personalized. What shoppers see in the meantime is configured as part of onboarding (for example, emphasizing other strategies such as **Best sellers**, hiding the shelf, or using a transitional setup). Confirm the exact behavior with your VTEX contact so your UI matches expectations.
```
